# video_game_sales

This an independent (i.e., not following a Codecademy prompt or project) series of projects aimed at exploring and analyzing video game sales data. As a very, very casual classic video game player, this dataset interested me because it covers almost 40 years of video game sales data and allowed me to explore sales trends and best-selling games and genres for the gaming consoles I remember from my youth. As a not insignificant bonus, it also allowed me to explore modern sales data to see how trends have shifted over the years as video games became more popular and market competition increased. In my opinion, it would be possible to complete a wide variety of projects using this data, but for practical reasons I limited myself to three. I describe these three projects below.

The first project was inspired by the video gaming hobby of someone very close to me. I imagined the following purely hypothetical scenario: What if there was a new video game developer/studio that wanted to break into the PlayStation gaming console market, but needed assistance deciding on what genre their new game should fall into? I analyzed the data with an eye toward which genres would, on average, produce high, reliable sales, and wrote a presentation detailing my findings. The resulting presentation can be found in the file 'PS4_game_genre_presentation.pdf;' in it, I explore historical trends in the North American video game market, then look at the best-selling video game genres of the past several years. Finally, I focus on best-selling genres on the PlayStation 4 gaming console in particular, and present conclusions based on my findings. The data analysis itself was conducted using Python 3.8 and Jupyter Notebook; packages used include Pandas, NumPy, Seaborn, and Matplotlib. I've included my Jupyter Notebook as 'video_game_sales_project_MAC.ipynb.' This file was also used to complete the second project detailed below.

The second project I am in the process of completing currently. In it, I aim to compare historical and modern trends in video game sales between different world regions (as defined by the dataset). I was curious to know whether or not the same video game genres were popular in all cataloged regions, and if not what the differences were. I will be writing up this project as a blog post. I will also be using the Jupyter notebook file 'video_game_sales_project_MAC.ipynb.' to complete the necessary data analysis for the blog post. 

The third and final project I am also in the process of writing up. I wanted to try my hand at using machine learning models to predict some aspect of the data in this dataset; however, I rapidly realized that, while rich for analyzing sales data, my choices for good machine learning models to construct with this dataset were fairly limited. Still, one can only work with the data one has, so I chose to try and predict a video game's genre based on its sales in different world regions (as defined by the dataset) as well as its year of release. All of the machine learning models that I built performed better than random, but can hardly be considered successful models in absolute terms. While I am still writing up the results, the Jupyter notebook file that I used to build the machine learning models has been posted; it is named 'video_game_genre_predictions_project_MAC.ipynb.' The notebook makes use of Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, and Scikit-Learn.

The data set I used for this project was downloaded from Kaggle.com, and more speciifically from the URL https://www.kaggle.com/gregorut/videogamesales. The individual who compiled the data set, Gregory Smith, scraped the data from http://www.vgchartz.com/. No license information is provided in the Kaggle repository at https://www.kaggle.com/gregorut/videogamesales, so I do not feel comfortable posting the .csv file I downloaded from it. The file was used for personal, not commerical, purposes. 
